MAN: And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
MAN: People are basically
going to keep on to help
uncover what really happened.
WOMAN: It felt like
something was watching me.
MAN: We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
Well, welcome back to another
edition of "Beyond Belief."
In our first part
with Eldon Taylor,
we talked about
mind programming,
how they are trying to
manipulate everything
we do, our minds, our actions.
Well, in this
program, we're going
to talk about his
work called "Choices
and Illusions," where Eldon
will tell us we do have choices,
or do we not?
[LAUGHS] What a wonderful--
Is it just an illusion?
You know, in many
senses, it is, George.
Krishnamurti said, look,
choice is an illusion.
Do I do this, or do I do that
arises as a state of confusion.
When I know clearly what
to do, there's no choice.
But I think the most
interesting piece of research
that I have discovered
in my lifetime comes out
of functional magnetic resonance
imaging, and that's this piece.
An MRI technician
watching your brain
make a decision live
time will know 6
to 10 seconds before you know--
---what you're going to do.
That's right.
Now that should just
shock us, shock us all.
I love that.
Unbelievable science.
For sure.
My favorite poem is the Robert
Frost poem of "The Road Not
Taken," where he talks
about this individual
looking at two scenarios.
And he took the road less
traveled by, and in his mind,
it made all the difference.
Is that what you
also mean by choices?
Picking and doing
something that could
reflect something for maybe
the rest of your life.
Maybe you'll regret
it, maybe you won't.
I do.
I absolutely do.
I am, I'm convinced
and the data shows us
that we are inculturated
in such a way
that we live our
lives as though we're
answering a multiple
choice question in school.
So we have A, B and C. Those are
our choices, period, that's it,
you know.
I like to illustrate
that by telling
a story that reflects it, that
I call the flower pot story.
But you know, the bottom
line comes down to this,
if I think I can only
do this or that, then
that's how I respond.
When I stop and
realize that there
are all these
other alternatives,
then my life changes.
It takes on a whole
different dimension.
Sure does.
Well, let's take a look
at the flower pot story.
ELDON TAYLOR: Choices.
Just imagine walking down
the street in New York City.
Those of you who have visited
New York, the Big Apple, I'm
over on 32nd.
I'm in the high rise condos.
Boy, these are $1.5
million, $2 million condos,
before the real estate boom.
And I'm walking along,
kind of looking, sky line.
And from a third store
balcony, flower pot falls.
Bah, hits me in the head.
Falls to the ground, pot
breaks, flower falls out.
I have some choices.
I bet you can all
think of this one.
We sue this guy.
He's got a lot of bucks.
Look at the place he lives in.
I'll claim concussion.
Get my digital little
portable phone out
and call my attorney right now.
You can do that.
Oh, I wanted to be John Wayne.
I'm going to take
this broken flower pot
and put it you know where.
But I get to the door and I
see this guy's a linebacker
for the Chicago Bears.
Excuse me.
I can be meta physical.
Thank you.
That probably brought
some enlightenment to me.
What else can I do?
What could I do that would turn
this situation into thank you,
gratitude situation?
What if I were to
take that flower,
go over to the corner
florist, have it repotted,
take the pot back to the owner.
Fell off your balcony,
pot was broke,
wanted to return
it to you repotted.
Of all the things
I could have done,
which one would have
made me feel the best?
You're right.
Last one.
My body would have been
filled with all those
good, warm, fuzzy chemicals.
I would have had a moment of ah.
I had a great laugh
looking at the expression
on a person's face.
That would have been
my best, wouldn't it?
Well, the old
flower pot, Eldon.
Interesting technique.
You know that old saying
of would have, could have,
should have.
You really can't
go back, though,
after you make your choice.
You've got to live with it.
-OK.
Yes, you're right.
I mean, once we take a road,
we're going down that road.
But can we reassess things
and change our life?
Absolutely.
We used to believe that
personality was fixed.
I mean, I remember
when I went to college,
and I'm dating myself now, but
you were told IQ was fixed,
personality was fixed.
That fixed somewhere between
two and four years of age.
Brain cells begin to
die in your early 30s
and they never
regenerated, and all kinds
of myths, if you will,
things that we know
today are just false to fact.
The best thing we
can often do today
is listen to the
words of Nietzsche.
And I'm not a big fan
of Frederick Nietzsche,
don't get me wrong.
But in his essay "Twilight,"
he says, why is it
we don't sit down and
decide the characteristics
that we want to be?
If we want to be honest
and we want to be outgoing,
we want to be
successful, we want
to have good relationships, what
does it take for us to do that?
Can we be honest?
Can we practice integrity?
Why don't we sit down and
make a list of these things
and then change our
personality in order
to begin representing the
person we want to be tomorrow?
Well, today, psychologists
will tell you
that the most
effective thing you
can do to improve your life,
change your personality.
So yeah, sure, we
didn't get down a road--
Easier said than done.
Yes and no.
Everything begins
one step at a time.
If we say, this is going to
be really monumentally yard,
it becomes monumentally hard.
How we predispose ourselves
by the way we talk to our self
becomes really
critically important.
I've given lots and
lots of seminars
where I try to
explain to people how
important our own self-talk,
our inner talk, is.
And the best way I
can do that is I've
illustrated it many times with
the millionaire proposition.
How many of you want
to be millionaires?
Everybody raises their hand.
OK, now I want you
to say to yourself,
and meaningfully, this year
I'm going to make $1 million.
And remember, I said
make $1 million, earn it.
You're not going
to win the lottery.
So you're going to
have to go at risk.
You may have to quit your
job or borrow some money.
Start a business, something.
Right.
I want you to believe
that you can do that.
Say that to yourself.
And you know, it only takes a
couple of minutes and people
start getting this
stream of back talk.
It's an affirmation.
Is that what we're doing?
Well, they start getting
things like, what are
you going to do, rob a bank?
Because they don't believe
inside that they can do that.
So the negativity comes out.
That's right.
So what happens
is we need to stop
paying attention to that
stream of consciousness,
begin to modify it.
But when you say
harder than it sounds,
I don't want people to
believe that it's too hard.
It takes mindfulness.
Yeah, I have to pay attention.
It has to be a regular
part of how I live.
But it's not something
that's impossible.
We're inculturated very
much like a chicken raised
in a chicken yard, or a
duckling, I should say,
raised in a chicken yard.
We practice out
our lives in ways
that we begin to decide what's
good luck, what's bad luck.
And people begin to
say, well, you know,
I wasn't born with a
silver spoon in my mouth.
I didn't get all
of the advantages.
I made these mistakes
when I was young.
I had this bad luck.
But you know, bad luck
is defined by perception.
We make our own luck.
There's no question about it.
Eldon, have you ever
been to Las Vegas?
I lived there for
a number of years.
And I tell you, if
you live in Las Vegas,
you don't play in Las Vegas.
That's true.
But people who go there-- and
I've watched them-- some people
have good luck, some
people have bad luck.
What determines that?
Who wins, who doesn't?
I've interviewed a number of
guests on "Coast to Coast"
who have written
books about luck.
They are convinced-- and
they've done some testing--
one guy even went out there
with a group of his students
to manifest luck.
And they all say that
positive thinking
and being forthright and being
energetic changes your luck.
Those people who come in
thinking, I'm going to lose,
this is not going
to work, they lose.
How come?
Well, I don't know that
I could answer that.
I do believe that
our attitude infects,
and that's a good word,
everything in our lives.
And so no doubt, if I'm
confident and positive,
I'm going to
interpret the outcome
in a confident, positive way,
regardless of whether I won big
or I just minimized
my losses, OK.
That could have
something to play.
We call that the
expectation factor.
But there's also
a lot of research
that shows the mind
influences such things
as random number generators.
So there is a level
of science that
wants to live look
at the mind as being
an artifact of the organ brain.
And as a pure artifact
of the organ brain,
obviously, there's no such
thing as mind at a distance.
However, there is all sorts of
evidence that demonstrates mind
at a distance in operation.
And it isn't just
remote viewing.
I know you've had Ed
Dames on your show.
It isn't just remote
viewing kinds of things.
It's you can take
a tongue depressor
and remove glial
cells from my mouth,
place them in a
Petri dish, divide
that in half, take half of them
up to five miles away-- this
has actually been done--
electronically stimulate
those cells-- they
don't like electricity--
and the cells you're
stimulating, say in the lab,
will respond, and the
cells five miles away
will respond at the same
time in the same way.
Now that's clearly an indication
that mind is not a local event.
So George, I don't know.
I don't want to be
the guy that says,
oh, your mind gets
into the computers
or those slot machines.
And most of the big
winners come off the slot
machines, not the 21 table.
But who knows?
Give me one of your examples
of good and bad luck.
Well, I think
good and bad luck,
for the most part, influences
how we perceive our worlds
and the way we conduct
ourselves in it.
If I feel that I am
a victim of bad luck,
I respond in a way that is
not conducive to my best
outcome And doesn't have
my highest best in it.
And if I respond as though
there is luck in everything that
comes to me, there is some good
in everything that comes to me,
well then, that outcome changes.
And what we have instead is a
direction that flows from it
that it is positive,
beneficial and does
support the goals,
optimum goals of our life.
There's a story about an old
rancher, back Civil War days.
And this rancher,
farmer has got a boy.
And he can't get around
because of arthritis.
But his son is taking
care of the farm.
And they're just
barely getting by.
That's most farms, too.
Yeah, especially in those days.
And it's time to seed.
And so his boy goes out
one day, hooks the mules
on that old plow and
starts working the field,
and a storm comes up, lightning
strikes, scares those mules,
they bolt, and the old
harness can't hold them,
plow tips forward, a harness
breaks, the horses bolt
and run away.
Everybody in the town
turns out, such bad luck.
I mean, you know, if you
can't farm that ground,
how are you going to
be able to stay or eat?
Well, the next day,
those mules came back.
And behind them came a
whole herd of wild horses.
So the old farmer and
his boy, they ran out.
They got the corral gates open.
The horses follow the mules in.
They closed them up and
the whole town turned out.
What good luck.
Horses were a premium.
Well, the boy decides,
you know, I'm going
to have to break these horses.
I sell them to the army.
So he goes out the
next day to break them,
the first one's a sun
fisher, flips over backwards,
breaks his arm, breaks his leg.
Whole town turns out.
Such bad luck.
No farmer, good luck,
bad luck, who knows?
You just have to wait
to see for the outcome.
Well, the next day,
the army marches in.
And they subscript
every able-bodied person
and they're headed for Shiloh.
Murder.
Hardly any come back.
But you know what?
They didn't take the
boy, because he had
a broken arm and a broken leg.
And the whole town,
such good luck.
And the old farmer, good
luck, bad luck, who knows?
There's a message there.
There is, George, there is.
And if we live our lives
as though-- good luck,
there is some luck,
there is some good.
Let me share another quick
one with you, if I can.
You know, I was a pretty
jaded criminalist.
And what's a criminalist?
You know, it's
someone that practices
police science privately.
Well sometimes with
law enforcement.
But usually, it's the
guy that carries the gun.
It's the guy that runs
the lie detection test.
It's the guy that does the
profiling of the criminal.
You see this on the television.
-The behind-the-scenes guy.
-Yeah.
A criminologist, he gets
his sociology training.
And we talk about
penology and things
of that nature,
where the criminalist
is actually in the field, OK.
So I was a kind of
jaded criminalist.
And not many things were working
in my life, except money.
I was making money.
I was successful.
But nothing else.
And it was a pretty sucky
life, to be truthful.
And I knew I needed to make
some changes in my life.
I was paranoid.
I was suspicious.
Totally unhappy.
I couldn't make a relationship
work for any reason.
I didn't trust anybody
for anything, George.
So I sought some help.
And this person, counselor,
if you will, said to me,
Eldon, if you're going
to change your life,
you're going to have
to change your outlook.
Instead of seeing things
black and white as you do,
some things are grey.
You're just going to have
to trust that things happen
to you for a good reason.
They happen to all of
us for a good reason.
He says, you've got
to be kidding, Connie.
You're trying to tell
me everything is good?
Well, it can be good.
It can have good outcomes.
I want you to do this, she says.
From now on, when anything
happens to you that you're
going to take negatively, I
want you to say to yourself,
I can't wait to see what
good comes from this.
Because just that little
shift in your attitude
make a big difference
in the outcome.
Huge difference.
No doubt.
So I left her.
I'm driving into my office.
It's a strip mall
and as you drive in,
right here in the front of
the mall is this restaurant.
And as I pass the restaurant,
this old rig backs out,
slams into the side of my new
Eldorado Biarritz, chrome roof.
I am-- OK.
I say to myself, George,
I can't wait to see
what good comes from this.
And I get out of the car.
Now maybe a week
earlier, I would
have got out of the car with
a whole different attitude.
And the fellow that
just backed into me,
he's shaking a finger
at me and accusing
me of hiding my car behind his.
So he-- well, it just
happened, two law enforcement
officers were coming out of the
restaurant, they saw it happen.
I ended up in the
car with one of them,
and we were rolling
about this guy
just-- I hid behind
his old jalopy
so he could run into my new car.
Today, I think about that.
And I've shared that story
with many, many people.
The body has two budgets
analogous to a government.
One is for growth,
one is for defense.
The minute I pour on all those
negative neuro chemicals, all
those defense neuro chemicals,
the adrenalines, et cetera,
the body goes to defense.
And three things happen.
The optimal operation
of our endocrine,
our immune, and our autonomic
nervous system cease to work.
-They stop.
-That's right.
So when I am in growth, all
of these things work best.
So if I just stop
and say, what's
the pragmatic way to deal with
negativity, with bad luck?
Well, it's to take a good
luck attitude towards it.
Because I'm going
to live longer,
I'm going to live healthier,
I'm going to be happier.
You know, stuff happens.
We all deal with it.
But we also all move through
it, if we choose to, George.
I tell a story in
"Choices and Illusions."
A lie detection friend
of mine from South Africa
was here a few years ago
in my home and offices.
And he was doing some
seminars with law enforcement
down there.
And law enforcement
had-- one of the reasons
he was in was to get a program
from me that they could use
in their interrogation
so they quit beating
confessions out of people.
So law enforcement there
is not law enforcement
here, all right.
They get away with things--
That most departments can't.
Their modus operandi is-- OK.
Intimidation.
He was attempting to
motivate law enforcement
to move away from
these kinds of things
and to change their attitudes.
And in order to communicate
with them about that,
he had a model.
You called it the
escalator of life.
And I love this model.
Because there are folks
that go through life
collecting cookies.
We'll call them bad cookies,
or crumbling cookies.
He called them the
big S word that we
can't use in media, cookies.
And they are so intent
on filling their backpack
with these cookies.
Because each one of
these cookies means
they garner more attention.
Because they could top
the story of whoever
is suffering in their group.
You know that cop
that stopped me today?
Oh, I've got a
better one than that.
And so here comes a
bad deal, a possible.
And they'll jump on that
escalator to grab that cookie
and put it in their
back, so that they
can, again, embellish that story
and share it with their group.
There is a mentality
in our population
that deals primarily
from that perspective,
to talk about good things.
Life's wonderful.
Living is just fantastic.
You know, I'm really
enjoying my work.
I'm really loving my family.
Who wants to hear that?
That's same old same.
So we don't see
that in television.
Years ago, my first
radio show was
called "The Good
News Hour," broadcast
out of Utah on KTKK radio.
We ran out of good news, George.
-Fast.
Fast.
We were dependent on
callers calling in.
Did you ever see a newscast,
a television newscast,
lead with a good story?
Never.
No, no.
And it gets worse.
Today, the media's
about sensationalism.
You and I have talked
before, so you know this.
But an example of that is
Stallone's "First Blood"
movies.
In the first one,
one person is killed.
By the time we get to his fourth
movie, over 100 are killed.
We also see that same
logarithmic increase
in the number of people he
kills with his shirt off.
And if you see the first
one versus the last one,
you can see he's
doing a lot of things
to make that shirt off
look more impressive.
We live in a society where
our threshold of arousal
is systematically requiring
more and more stimulus.
Because it's been
desensitized over the years.
Marilyn Monroe, and the
skirt flutters into the air.
Everybody's seen that.
That's nothing titillating
about that today.
Look at what goes on
in prime time TV today.
The sad thing is,
we begin to expect
that as a normal way of life.
We begin to require
that or we're bored.
And that, too, is
one of our choices.
We can choose otherwise.
With "Choices and Illusions,"
the successful people,
have they made the right
choices in their lives?
Sometimes yes, sometimes no.
They're just screwed up as
everybody else sometimes,
aren't they?
Yeah, there are lots
of folks out there
that have made it big.
And they made it
big in athletics.
But they're not happy.
No.
Or they made fortunes.
And I've talked to elite
athletes, hall of fame athletes
who, life sucks.
Nothing works for them.
They were good on the field.
It's truly amazing.
Yeah.
And you would think,
we see them as heroes.
I've talked to multi
millionaires who--
And they're self-destructive.
Yeah.
They made the wrong
choices because
of the order of their
priorities and because
of the way that we think,
the way that we are funneled
into seeing alternatives.
That's amazing.
Eldon, thank you again for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Both shows have been
just superb with you.
It's my pleasure indeed.
Thank you, sir.
I love everything you do.
This latest work, called
"Choices and Illusions."
We do have choices.
But there are
illusions, as well.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."